"How many hours on this broken-down bus until we're friends?"

	There has to be a number, thought Arturo. It wasn't like they were going to sit on the side of Interstate 84 for five, six, seven hours in awkward silence. 
	
	The Greyhound bus from Spokane, Washington to Portland, Oregon had made it nine-tenths of the way there before the air conditioning cut off and the bus pulled onto the shoulder. The driver, a short black woman with an overly pleasant voice, made the first of many announcements.
	"I have an announcement!" she shouted. "There's been a problem with the bus. I'm calling a technician, and we'll be on our way soon."
	The passengers grumbled. Arturo was in no rush to see his parents so he didn't mind the delay: he leaned back in his chair and scrolled through Instagram. He did mind the lack of air conditioning. The wet patches on his back and armpits made Arturo regret wearing a white t-shirt. But all things considered, this wasn't too bad. The trip was almost over.
	The bus was empty aside from six other people. 
	A mother and son in matching athletic wear sat next to each other in the very back. An older woman with a dog was sleeping a few rows ahead. Toward the middle, a large man in headphones peered into a Samsung tablet, both hands gripping the screen like a steering wheel. A smaller man, short enough to comfortably nap in the fetal position, slept in the two seats directly behind the driver. And the bus driver hummed and rapped her fingers on the steering wheel, as if she were only briefly stuck in traffic.
	Mother and son, lady and dog, big man and small man, bus driver and Arturo sat there and waited.

...

	"I have an announcement!" the bus driver announced. "It's actually going to be like an hour before the technician makes it out here. If you have someone who can come pick you up, that's probably a good move."
	The passengers grumbled and started making phone calls. By this point the dog lady and the small man had migrated off the bus to smoke on the side of the highway. Arturo watched the bus driver stick her head out of the door to repeat her announcement. He noticed what looked like a pond or a small lake in a wooded area to the right of the highway. Arturo imagined stripping his shirt and diving into the water. It would probably disgusting, but his sweaty t-shirt already felt gross.
	"No, we're not there yet...I can just share my location, I -- no, it's literally the side of some highway, it's easier if I just share my location. Yeah...okay." The son in athletic wear softly spoke to someone on the phone while his mother watched intently. Arturo found it bizarre that a mother and her son would wear matching Adidas tracksuits, both in a faded off-teal color that seemed too fashionable to be representing any sort of sports team.
	"Did you see my text? Okay cool...alright." The large man spoke like a novelty car horn playing "La Cucaracha." The words bounced out of his mouth, staccato and rising in pitch. He was making the call on his tablet, still gripping it with two hands and nodding along to the response.
	Arturo was jealous of the people who had rides coming. He thought about asking the large man or the mother and son to take him, but then decided it would be weird. Uber might have come out there, but it probably would have cost more than his bus ticket. Definitely calling his mom or dad was out of the question.
	So the bus segregated between the haves and the have-nots: the mother and son and the large man (who had rides) strolled outside with an impatient swagger, phones and tablet clutched triumphantly. The dog lady and the small man (who did not have rides) came back on board to join Arturo and the bus driver.
	"Man, fuck Greyhound," said the dog lady. She launched a round of communal bitching. 
	"I paid too much money to be out here on the side of road!" yelled the small man.
	"They better bring sandwiches or something. I'm hungry," said Arturo.
	"Y'all are right, fuck Greyhound," said the driver, her voice half an octave lower than before. She drank the remaining water in a crinkly plastic bottle before continuing: "They been using the same buses since 1996. This happens all the damn time."
	"So we're just waiting on the technician then?" asked Arturo.
	"Yeah. They actually gon' be here pretty soon, like twenty minutes. But, if they can't fix the bus I'm gon' need to call the main office in Dallas and get them to send me another bus. And that's gon' take a minute." 

[flesh out dog lady, small man, Arturo, bring mother back on bus]

...

	"I have an announcement!" shouted the bus driver. "And it's good this time. The technician is here, and she has food. Raise your hand if you don't eat meat." The mother, dog lady, and small man stared blankly at the driver.
	Arturo had toyed with vegetarianism in college, but his parents' endless commentary led to exceptions for his mom's chicken, then for whatever meat his friends cooked, then for stoned, late night trips to Wendy's, and soon enough it didn't seem honest to call himself vegetarian. The pictures of caged chickens he sometimes saw on his Instagram feed made him uneasy.

[technician mentions buses being from 1996]

Next:
Flesh out characters below (get creative!)
Add conversation before technician (maybe a scene where they step off the buzz to smoke and note the whizzing sound of the cars driving by. Arturo can mention the pond to call back to that.)
Add conversation after technician (call back to buses not being fixed since 1996. Probably off the bus at this point. Finish by breaking the fourth wall and demanding a refund)

Characters:
Mother and son - back from soccer tournament. Mom would do anything for her kid despite poverty, kind of overbearing. Kid loves playing soccer (Mom, Beau)
Dog lady - Ran away from treatment clinic. Going to Portland to get back in contact with family and ask to change things (Kaylaa)
Small man - unauthorized immigrant looking for work. Game from Guatemala in 2013, a little before the Central American crisis (Jesse)
Big man - Thick white guy with Polish roots. Computer engineering student. Going back home from break from WSU (Lucas)
Driver - Originally from Georgia, sunny optimism, genuinely loves seeing the country as she drives (Aunt Nelly but also Mimi kind of)
